This last quiz showed us how to combine
traffic acquisition reports with observations related to shopping behavior.
As you've probably seen,
the acquisition reports and the behavior reports have conversion data built into them.
Like in this channel report example,
you can use this report to see how many sessions from
a particular channel resulted in a transaction,
for instance, using the e-commerce conversion rate.
In this example, 0.07 percent of the traffic
coming in through social channels resulted in a transaction.
This information is very important when trying to evaluate which
marketing channels are most likely to help towards your goals.
It's important to use them to look beyond just generating traffic.
In this example, I may be very proud of my accomplishments to
drive traffic to my sites using social channels,
however, it looks like that traffic is not really
helping me much towards my goal of selling products.
I remember talking to a client once who was super excited about
a new Facebook campaign they had started to market their fashion app.
They were a startup and they were of course focused on
getting as many app downloads as possible.
The Facebook campaign generated many clicks to
the app website and the founders could not have been happier.
This campaign made the search marketing campaign they
had been running for months look super small.
The search campaign had never generated this amount of traffic to their website.
So, the company decided to shift the budget to the Facebook campaign.
However, when we took a look at Google Analytics,
we saw that Facebook campaign was indeed bringing
many visitors to the site but those visitors didn't convert,
only very few of them actually downloaded the app.
The search campaign was not bringing in the user volumes we saw from
Facebook but the probability of those users converting was way higher.
We calculated what the cost per downloads ended up
being for the people that were acquired via
search versus Facebook and it turned out that
the downloads from Facebook cost the company twice as much,
all due to the facts the conversions did not happen.
When they got these insights,
the founders decided to shift course and put the money
spent on the Facebook campaign into search marketing instead.
Acquisition should never be evaluated in isolation.
You should always evaluate whether your acquired traffic actually converts.
If not, you may be wasting your time and your money.